ON GRACE YEAR RULE
Grace year concept only applies to the person who has excess earnings. For example if:
    1) personA is working (with high amount of excess earnings) and files for a retirement benefit, and
    2) personB files for a spousal benefit on personA's record
    3) personB's spousal benefit can still be withheld. This is true even if personB is no longer working and this is their first nonservice month in a year in which they're entitlted to a benefit.
        4) Also true even if personB is over FRA
    See: SSAct 203(f)(1)
    "Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this paragraph but subject to section 202(s), no part of the excess earnings of an individual shall be charged to any month [...] (E) in which SUCH INDIVIDUAL did not engage in self-employment and did not render services for wages (determined as provided in paragraph (5) of this subsection) of more than the applicable exempt amount as determined under paragraph (8), if such month is in the taxable year in which occurs the first month after December 1977 that is both (i) a month for which the individual is entitled to benefits under subsection (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), or (h) of section 202 (without having been entitled for the preceding month to a benefit under any other of such subsections), and (ii) a month in which the individual did not engage in self-employment and did not render services for wages (determined as provided in paragraph (5)) of more than the applicable exempt amount as determined under paragraph (8)"

ON CHILD DISABILITY RECIPIENTS BEING ABLE TO HAVE THEIR BENEFITS WITHHELD VIA EARNINGS TEST (ON PARENT'S EARNINGS)
https://secure.ssa.gov/poms.nsf/lnx/0302501021
^ Says child on childhood disability benefit does not have benefit withheld due to earnings test. What it actually means is that child's benefit as child won't be withheld due to their OWN earnings. Can still be withheld due to parent's earnings.
 See here: https://secure.ssa.gov/apps10/poms.nsf/lnx/0302501140 (Social Security Act also pretty clear on this in 203(f)(1).)


----
ON ORDER OF EARNINGS TEST APPLICATION:
Key point in married scenario: A's earnings first reduce A's retirement benefit and B's spousal benefit. *Then* B's earnings reduce B's spousal benefit. See CFR 404.434
    So we first use A's earnings to reduce A's retirement and B's spousal. And we use B's earnings to reduce B's retirement and A's spousal.
    Then if further withholding is necessary we have their own earnings reduce their own spousal.

--------
ON CHILDREN BEING DEEMED ENTITLED ON PARENT'S RECORD FOR EARNINGS TEST
https://secure.ssa.gov/apps10/poms.nsf/lnx/0302501140
    Says that if a child of personA is entitled on personB's record, deem child to be entitled on personA's record as well for the sake of withholding due to A's earnings.

Social Securitiy Act 203(b)(1)(B) appears to say that this deemed entitlement for sake of earnings test only applies to a person who
1) is married to the earner (but not truly entitled on his/her record), and
2) is entitled as an adult disabled child or mother/father on another record.

CFR 404.420 appears to say the same thing as SSAct 203(b)(1)(B).

SSAct 203(f) doesn't appear to speak to question of children being deemed entitled.

--------

Social Security Act 203(f)(1)(F) might be saying that a person entitled to spousal benefits solely due to having child in care doesn't have benefits reduced by earnings test if they are earning less than 1/12 threshold amount per month.

-------
ON DUALLY ENTITLED CHILDREN (I.E., ENTITLED ON BOTH PARENTS' RECORDS)
When a child is entitled to child benefits on two work records, and both parents are working while younger than FRA: does child's benefit get used for withholding due to high-PIA spouse's record?
Or is it split between the two? Don't see anything in Social Security Act 203(b) or 203(f) about such situation. Nor do I see anything in CFR about such situation.
Conclusion: Doesn't matter.
    TOTAL amount of withholding necessary over course of year is clear. And total amount of benefit that *could* be withheld over course of year is clear.
    Question is basically, does PersonA or PersonB have more of their own benefit withheld (because the child's benefit is being withheld against the other person's excess earnings).
    In PV calc we're only concerned with "What is TOTAL annual benefit if [mortality assumption]?" And in this case it's clear what that total annual benefit would be.
    So we might end up with a situation where in the table PersonB's benefit is overstated and PersonA's is understated, but it wouldn't affect PV for the year at all.


----
ON ORDERING RE: EARNINGS TEST AND FAMILY MAXIMUM
        SS Act notes:
        203(a)(1) is family max
        203(a)(3)(A) is combined family max
        203(b) and 203(f) are earnings test

        203(b)(1)(B)(i) (and half-sentence immediately beforehand) appear to indicate that family max is applied before earnings test.

        CFR 404.437 says that "We will further reduce your benefits (other than a disability insurance benefit) because of your excess earnings (see § 404.430), after your benefits may have been reduced because of the following: (a) The family maximum (see §§ 404.403 and 404.404)"

        POMS is pretty clear that family maximum happens first
        https://secure.ssa.gov/apps10/poms.nsf/lnx/0302501155
            "Charge excess earnings to auxiliary or survivor benefits after adjusting the benefits for the maximum"
        https://secure.ssa.gov/apps10/poms.nsf/lnx/0302501095
            "The amount of benefits we use to charge the excess is the amount after any reduction for the maximum (without first making any annual earnings test deduction)"

        Conversely CFR 404.402(a) states "Deductions because of earnings or work (see §§ 404.415 and 404.417) [...] are made (1) Before making any reductions because of the maximum (see § 404.403)"

        So that's 4 places (Act, 2 POMS, 1 CFR) saying family max happens first. And 1 saying earnings test happens first.